Hello, everybody. My name is Icheka and I am going to teach you professional 
web design.
I am a computer programmer and expert web designer with over ten years 
experience.
Starting today, I will give you what I know.

So, the first thing we will be discussing today is the definition of
HTML: html stands for hypertext markup language and it is the most widely used
 markup language in the world!
Over 97% of the web was built using some form or version of it.

a markup lang is a special computer language that allows you to markup or 
format text documents. because at its most basic level, 
the world wide web is just a ginormous collection of text docs!

At the end of the lesson today you would have built your first web document!

Just as different programming languages have special software for reading 
and executing them,
html has its own special software. the html interpreter is called a browser.

thats ryt. The simple chrome or explorer that you have is actually a hghly 
sofisticated 
html interprter, able to convert the html lang into the beautiful text and 
graphics that you see on
your screen.

what can html do? html is responsible for most of what you see when you load a
 website like google or facebook. html presents the browser
with text and graohics (that is oictures, audio and video) and directs it to 
place them appropriately.
without html the internet could hardly function.

Now that we undersrand what html is and what it does lets talk about how 
html docs are saved.
html docs are saved with the .html file extension. a file ext is a short name 
preceded by a fullstop that tells the computer what kind 
of file it is. a good example is .apk for android apps. for html docs, the file 
ext is .html so we always have to saveour html docs in that file format 

here we can see an email message sent by a guy named Dave Taylor. So lets type 
this into our text editor (for android i rec anwriter free, for pc notepad or vs code)
so we type this email in our editor and press save. we save it in our documents 
folder as email by dave.html. then we go to our docs folder, click/tap on it, and the 
browser automatically opens it up.
 
oops! thts not what we wanted at all!

Why this happen? I mean, we typed everything right, didnt we? What went wrong?

What went wrong is that we tried to speak english to the computer.
The comp does not understand English. We need to converse with it in a language 
it acfually understands.
And since what we want to do is build a webpage, we must use HTML.
How is html written?
Html is written using something we call tags, which are just special units of
 information that the browser needs
to know exactly how to format the web page. There are two kinds of tags in html--
 the paired tag and the standalone tag. paired tags are the ones that require an
opening tag and a closing tag to function properly.
On the other hand, standalone tags dont have closing tags. They dont require a 
closing tag to do work.
Lets see some of these tags now.

The first tag we will look at is the html tag. the html tag is a paired tag and 
it is the first tag in a html document. The html tag 
looks like this. we fix it at the beginning and at the end of our html document. 
The html tag tells the browser "hey. this is a html document. Treat it
as such." you can see how i fix an opeing tag and a closing tag at the beginning 
and end of my text doc. I'll save this
and re-render it in my web browser. Nothing's changed, right? that is because we 
have not done any actual formatting yet.

the next tag we'll learn is the paragraph tag. <p> and </p>. the p tag is used to
 specify where we want paragraphs. we enclose the text with the paragraph tag,
then we can save and view it in the browser. this is good. but its not what we
 want yet, is it?
so we'll use the break line tag <br /> the br tag is also called the new line tag 
and we use it to tell the browser to break the current line i.e 
to start a new line right where the tag is placed. so we'll edit our document
 like this. we'll save it and reload our web page.
f